Initial Source Tree Skeleton (#182)
jellyfin/jellyfin-docs: general/contributing/sourcetree.md

---
uid: contrib-source
title: Source Tree
---

# Contributing to Jellyfin's Source Tree

The Jellyfin Source Tree is a maze of many projects. With Emby's old code and Jellyfin's new code intermixed together. To help with this, this Source Tree guide was created.

### [Jellyfin Server](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin)
1.  BDInfo: `Blu-Ray Analyzer`
    - Properties: `Assembly Info`
2.  DvdLib: `DVD Anaylzer`
    - Ifo: 
    - Properties:
3.  Emby.Dlna: 
4.  Emby.Drawing:
5.  Emby.Naming:
6.  Emby.Notifications:
7.  Emby.Photos:
8.  Emby.Server.Implementations:
9.  Jellyfin.Api:
10. Jellyfin.Drawing.Skia:
11. Jellyfin.Server:
12. MediaBrowser.Api:
13. MediaBrowser.Common:
14. MediaBrowser.Controller:
15. MediaBrowser.LocalMetadata:
16. MediaBrowser.MediaEncoding:
17. MediaBrowser.Model:
18. MediaBrowser.Providers:
19. MediaBrowser.WebDashboard:
20. MediaBrowser.XbmcMetadata:
21. RSSDP:
22. benches/Jellyfin.Common.Benches:

> ### [Jellyfin WebOS](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### [Web Client](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web)
```

1.  Src: 
    - components:
    - controllers:
    - css:
    - img:
    - legacy:
    - libraries:
    - scripts:
    - splashscreens:

>     - strings:

Reviewer: These folders have already changed a bit in some of my new pull requests (all static assets moved to a single folder) but I'll list the unchanged ones below.

* components: custom elements used for different sections of the user interface
* controllers: scripts that handle the logic for different pages
* legacy: currently used for all polyfills and scripts related to backwards compatibility
* libraries: dependencies that we eventually want to remove and include during the build step
* scripts: any script that isn't tied to a UI element or page but rather general functionality
* strings: translations for the entire interface

Some of the new changes I'm planning at the moment are below.

* assets: images, styles, splash screens, and any other static assets
* elements: custom UI components that are used globally such as buttons or menus
* themes: all themes will exist in this folder, including custom themes at some point

We also have a basic plugin system that could also get its own folder in the future, but it would need a lot of cleanup before that can happen. The HTML files for the pages should also be moved to a folder at some point (maybe added next to the controllers? not sure) so they can stay organized as well.

Author: thanks :) I'll add in descriptions for everything

---
uid: contrib-source
title: Source Tree
---

> # Contributing to Jellyfin's Source Tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Source Tree
```

The Jellyfin Source Tree is a maze of many projects. With Emby's old code and Jellyfin's new code intermixed together. To help with this, this Source Tree guide was created.

### [Jellyfin Server](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin)
1.  BDInfo: `Blu-Ray Analyzer`
    - Properties: `Assembly Info`
2.  DvdLib: `DVD Anaylzer`
    - Ifo: 
    - Properties:
3.  Emby.Dlna: 
4.  Emby.Drawing:
5.  Emby.Naming:
6.  Emby.Notifications:
7.  Emby.Photos:
8.  Emby.Server.Implementations:
9.  Jellyfin.Api:
10. Jellyfin.Drawing.Skia:
11. Jellyfin.Server:
12. MediaBrowser.Api:
13. MediaBrowser.Common:
14. MediaBrowser.Controller:
15. MediaBrowser.LocalMetadata:
16. MediaBrowser.MediaEncoding:
17. MediaBrowser.Model:
18. MediaBrowser.Providers:
19. MediaBrowser.WebDashboard:
20. MediaBrowser.XbmcMetadata:
21. RSSDP:
22. benches/Jellyfin.Common.Benches:

> 

Reviewer: extra newline here

### [Web Client](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web)

> 1.  Src: 

Reviewer: this is technically lowercase

    - components: `custom elements used for different sections of the user interface`
      - playerstats:
        - playerstats.js: `Code for displaying Playback Info during playback`
    - controllers: `scripts that handle the logic for different pages`
    - css:
    - img:
    - legacy: `currently used for all polyfills and scripts related to backwards compatibility`
    - libraries: `dependencies that we eventually want to remove and include during the build step`
    - scripts: `any script that isn't tied to a UI element or page but rather general functionality`
    - splashscreens:
    - strings: `translations for the entire interface`
    <br>Future Implementations:
    - assets: `images, styles, splash screens, and any other static assets`
    - elements: `custom UI components that are used globally such as buttons or menus`
    - themes: `all themes will exist in this folder, including custom themes at some point`
    
### [Android](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-android)

> 1. res:

Reviewer: should always include newline after header for readability

---
uid: contrib-source
title: Source Tree
---

# Source Tree

> The Jellyfin Source Tree is a maze of many projects. With Emby's old code and Jellyfin's new code intermixed together. To help with this, this Source Tree guide was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jellyfin Source Tree is a maze of many projects. These source trees can serve as an excellent tool to inform new developers about the structure of several projects.
```

### [Jellyfin Server](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin)

1.  BDInfo: `Blu-Ray Analyzer`
    - Properties: `Assembly Info`
2.  DvdLib: `DVD Anaylzer`
    - Ifo: 
    - Properties:
3.  Emby.Dlna: 
4.  Emby.Drawing:
5.  Emby.Naming:
6.  Emby.Notifications:
7.  Emby.Photos:
8.  Emby.Server.Implementations:
9.  Jellyfin.Api:
10. Jellyfin.Drawing.Skia:
11. Jellyfin.Server:
12. MediaBrowser.Api:
    - Playback:

>       - BaseStreamingService.cs: Logic for the Stream Builder itself, this determines how transcoding will occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - BaseStreamingService.cs: `logic for the stream builder that determines how transcoding will occur`
```

13. MediaBrowser.Common:
14. MediaBrowser.Controller:
15. MediaBrowser.LocalMetadata:
16. MediaBrowser.MediaEncoding:
17. MediaBrowser.Model:
18. MediaBrowser.Providers:
19. MediaBrowser.WebDashboard:
20. MediaBrowser.XbmcMetadata:
21. RSSDP:
22. benches/Jellyfin.Common.Benches:

### [Web Client](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web)

1.  src: 
    - components: `custom elements used for different sections of the user interface`
      - playerstats:
        - playerstats.js: `Code for displaying Playback Info during playback`
    - controllers: `scripts that handle the logic for different pages`
    - css:
    - img:
    - legacy: `currently used for all polyfills and scripts related to backwards compatibility`
    - libraries: `dependencies that we eventually want to remove and include during the build step`
    - scripts: `any script that isn't tied to a UI element or page but rather general functionality`
    - splashscreens:
    - strings: `translations for the entire interface`
    <br>Future Implementations:
    - assets: `images, styles, splash screens, and any other static assets`
    - elements: `custom UI components that are used globally such as buttons or menus`

>     - themes: `all themes will exist in this folder, including custom themes at some point`

Reviewer: The future implementations section has already replaced several of the folders that existed previously.

Reviewer: Specifically, the three folders here exist now. Also, the `css`, `img`, and `splashscreens` folders are now in the `assets` folder instead.

    
### [Android](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-android)

1. res:
   - android:
2. src:
   - NativeShell:
     - res:
     - src:

>        - RemotePlayerService.java: `Remote Notifier such as for BlueTooth` ***unconfirmed***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - RemotePlayerService.java: `handles the notification tile that can control playback`
```

     - www:
   - cordova:
   
### [Android-tv](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-androidtv)

1. app:
   - src:
     - main:
       - assets/fonts:
       - java/org/jellyfin/androidtv:
       - res:

### [Jellyfin for Kodi](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-kodi)

1. jellyfin_kodi
   - database: `manipulating the local Jellyfin sqlite database`
   - dialogs: `code behind popup menus for user interaction`
   - entrypoint: `main addon settings page`
   - helper: `small helper functions, mostly formatting or reused functions`

>    - jellyfin: `interacting with remote Jellyfin server`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - jellyfin: `interacting with the server`
```

>    - objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - objects:
```

---
uid: contrib-source
title: Source Tree
---

# Source Tree

> The Jellyfin Source Tree is a maze of many projects. These source trees can serve as an excellent tool to inform new developers about the structure of several projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jellyfin is a maze of clients, plugins, and other useful projects. These source trees can serve as an excellent tool to inform new developers about the structure of several projects.
```

### [Jellyfin Server](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin)

1.  BDInfo: `Blu-Ray Analyzer`
    - Properties: `Assembly Info`
2.  DvdLib: `DVD Anaylzer`
    - Ifo: 
    - Properties:
3.  Emby.Dlna: 
    - Profiles: `DLNA Profiles for clients`
4.  Emby.Drawing:
5.  Emby.Naming:
6.  Emby.Notifications:
7.  Emby.Photos:
8.  Emby.Server.Implementations:

>     - ScheduledTasks: `Scheduled Tasks are maintained here`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ScheduledTasks: `all scheduled tasks can be found here`
```

9.  Jellyfin.Api:
10. Jellyfin.Drawing.Skia:
11. Jellyfin.Server:
12. MediaBrowser.Api:
    - Playback:
      - BaseStreamingService.cs: `logic for the stream builder that determines how transcoding will occur`
13. MediaBrowser.Common:
14. MediaBrowser.Controller:
15. MediaBrowser.LocalMetadata:
16. MediaBrowser.MediaEncoding:
17. MediaBrowser.Model:
18. MediaBrowser.Providers:
19. MediaBrowser.WebDashboard:
20. MediaBrowser.XbmcMetadata:
21. RSSDP:
22. benches/Jellyfin.Common.Benches:

### [Web Client](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web)

1.  src: 
    - assets: `images, styles, splash screens, and any other static assets`

>       - css:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - css: `all global stylesheets used throughout the client`
```

>       - img:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - img: `images for things like device icons and logos`
```

>       - splash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - splash: `progressive web apps will show these splash screens`
```

    - components: `custom elements used for different sections of the user interface`
      - playerstats:

>         - playerstats.js: `Code for displaying Playback Info during playback`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - playerstats.js: `display playback info in browsers and other clients that include the web source`
```

    - controllers: `scripts that handle the logic for different pages`
    - elements: `custom UI components that are used globally such as buttons or menus`
    - legacy: `currently used for all polyfills and scripts related to backwards compatibility`
    - libraries: `dependencies that we eventually want to remove and include during the build step`
    - scripts: `any script that isn't tied to a UI element or page but rather general functionality`
    - strings: `translations for the entire interface`

>     - themes: `all themes will exist in this folder, including custom themes at some point`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - themes: `custom and bundled themes can be found here in their own directories`
```
